46 THE KALEWALA.

The poem begins with a cosmogony of the kind which we find in the
mythological traditions of many races. An allegorical female, called the
Daughter of the Air, finds herself in a fair way to become a mother,
through the influence of the wind while she is disporting on the surface
of the water ; but her expectations are so far from speedily fulfilled, that
she floats about for 700 years before she increases, or rather commences,
the population. In this condition, she offers a prayer to the supreme
deity Ukko ; and a duck at last appears, and builds upon her knee, which
it takes for a mountain, a nest, in which it Jays six golden eggs and a
seventh of iron. When the eggs have been sat upon for some time, the
Water-Mother (as the maiden is now called) feels a painful sensation of
burning, and shakes them off, so that they fall into the water. The shells
form the upper and lower vaults of the universe, the yolk becomes the
sun, the white is congulated into the moon, some particles are converted into
stars and clouds. Raising her head above the flood, the Water-Mother
herself creates the various divisions of the land and sea, a touch of her hand
forming promontories, her head hollowing out gulfs, and so on. Thirty more
years, however, elapse before she gives birth to the son, who is growing
weary of his confinement, and is no other than the hero of the poem,
Wäinämöinen. At last, rushing into the world by his own exertion, he
plunges headlong into the water, where he remains eight years, and
ultimately settles on a barren island.

Remaining several years more on this spot, he grows weary of its
unfruitful condition ; but is at last comforted by 2 beneficent deity, who
is represented as a slender boy, and bears the two names, Pellerwoinen
and Samsa. Pellerwoinen sows and plants liberally, and the bare earth is
clothed with vegetation, to the great delight of Wäinämöinen, who is,
however, disappointed at the non-appearance of the oak. In a few days
the deficiency is supplied: the hay which has been made by five “ water-
maidens” is set on fire by a giant, who rises from the flood, and an acorn
is found among the ashes. The oak that now grows proves a source of
mischief; for it is so tall, and its branches are so close and wide, that it
arrests the passage of the clouds, and shuts out the light of the sun and
moon. Wiiiniimdinen, greatly shocked, calls on his mother for assistance ;
and in answer to his invocation a little man appears, no taller than his
thumb, and clad entirely in copper. He laughs at the ditninutive stature
of the apparition, which replies by suddenly growing to a colossal height,
and felling the oak with three strokes of an axe. The earth now enjoys
the blessing of light ; and the fragments of the tree, which are borne in all
directions by the waters, endow with miraculous powers those who are so
fortunate as to find them.

Wandering about, Wäinämöinen finds on the shore of the “Blue
Sea” seven grains, which he is going to sow in a woody district,
when he is warned by a bird that his labour will be in vain, if he does
not first clear away the forest. He accordingly fells all the trees, with
the exception of a single birch, which he leaves as a resting-place for the
