48 THE KALEWALA.

begins by singing various platitudes and trivial facts, which being heard
with scorn by Wäinämöinen, he takes a higher tone, and haughtily asserts
that he was one of the creators of the universe. Indignant at this fulse-
hood, and contemptuously refusing a challenge to fight with swords,
Wäinämöinen sings in his turn, and to such purpose that Joukahainen
gradually sinks into the earth, while his sledge and his garments are
subjected to the most funtastic transformations. In this predicament, the
rash youth attempts to regain his liberty by successively offering to Wäi-
nämöinen a pair of marvellous bows, a couple of useful messengers, two
horses, caps full of gold and silver, quantities of corn; but all in vain, as
the conqueror asserts he has enough of such possessions already. When,
however, Joukahainen at last offers his sister Aino, Wiiiniiméinen, delighted
at the prospect of obtaining so fair a wife, at once releases him, and he goes
home in very desponding condition to his parents. His sister is equally
grieved at the thought of leaving her father’s home; but the old woman,
his mother, is rejoiced that she will obtain a son-in-law of such renown.

Aino’s dislike of old Wäiniimöinen (he is called “old” even before
his birth) is increased by some gallant speeches with which he accosts
her, while she is gathering branches in a wood for the purpose of making
brooms. She runs home in an agony of grief, in which her mother does
not at all participate ; but, on the contrary, advises her to make herself
as smart as possible, and in particular to put on certain golden girdles
and blue gowns that were made by the Daughter of the Moon, from
whom in her youth she received them as a gift. Aino refuses to be con-
soled, but puts on the fine clothes, and flies from home to avoid the hateful
marriage. On the third day after her flight, while she is lamenting on the
sea-shore, and preparing to take a bath, a stone on which she attempts to
sit rolls into the water, and she sinks with it, bewailing her own untimely
end. Various avimals perceive the accident; but neither the bear, the wolf,
nor the fox will quit their usual occupations to carry the bad news to her
parents. The melancholy office is performed by the hare; and such is the
remorseful grief of Aino’s mother, who justly regards herself as the cause
of her daughter’s decease, that she not only weeps so violently as to wet
through all her garments, but her tears form three great rivers. In every
one of the rivers is a cataract, and in each of these is a hill upon which
stands a birch-tree, on the top of which three cuckoos are singing.

As for Wiiiniiméinen, he no sooner hears the fate of Aino than he
resolves to recover her, and calls upon an obscure dreaming deity (a sort
of Morpheus), named Untamo, to show the abode of the water-goddesses.
A certain woody island is indicated, to which Wäinämöinen at once proceeds
in a boat, and commences angling in the ordinary fashion. Soon he hooks
the most beautiful fish he has ever seen in his life, and prepares to cut it
up with his knife; when it leaps back into the water, and reproaching him
for his want of discernment, confesses that it is Joukahainen’s sister, who,
in altered mood, had come to be his wife, but is now lost to him for ever.
Wäinämöinen is overwhelmed with grief, less perhaps at the loss of the
