THE KALEWALA. 49

lovely Aino than at the thought of his own stupidity, which he feels is
increasing with advancing years. If his mother had been alive, he thinks
he would have acted more wisely; and the old lady, hearing his com-
plaints in her grave, advises him to seek consolation* by wooing another
maiden in the north.

In conformity with his mother’s advice, Wiiiniiméinen sets off for a
village in the northland, but is waylaid by Joukahainen, who still harbours
his ancient grudge. Shooting at him with a bow of exquisite workman-
ship, he twice misses him; but the third arrow wounds Wäiniimöinen's
horse, and the rider falls, to be carried away by 2 hurricane into the bound-
less waters, Joukahainen, dooming his enemy to float unceasingly for
eight years, returns exulting to his mother; but she hears him disap-
provingly, and tells him that he did an ill deed in shooting Wäinämöinen.

After swimming about several days, Wäinämöinen feels the same un-
easiness that might befall any ordinary mortal, pondering with himself
whether he is most likely to end his days by hunger or by drowning. He
is rescued hy an eagle, who, still mindful of his benevolence in leaving the
birch-tree intact for the repose of the birds, takes him upon his back.
Tlis position, however, is not materially improved, as he is placed by the
eagle on a remote northern const, whence he sees no prospect of returning.
A beautiful girl hears his lamentations from the opposite coast, and tells
what she has heard to Louhi, the “ hostess” of Pohjola, as she is called,
who, fetching him in a hoat, brings him to her own residence, where she
hospitably offers to entertain him with boar’s flesh and salmon. With
such delights he will have nothing to do, but pathetically demands to
be taken back to his own country, Kalewala. Louhi promises to comply
with his request, if he will make for her a certain machine, called the
Sampo. He answers that he is no smith himself, but undertakes to send
an able craftsman, nained Ilmarinen; and he is accordingly allowed to
depart in a sledge, with the information that the hand of Louhi’s daughter
will be given to the manufacturer of the Sampo. On his way homeward
the maiden of Pohjola is sitting on a rainbow, weaving a web of gold and
silver. He invites her to descend into the sledge, and go home with him as
his bride, which she refuses to do if he will not perform a number of seem-
ingly impossible tasks—peel skins from % stone, split a horse-hair with a
knife, and so on. All these tasks he executes with facility till he comes
to the manufacture of a sea-worthy boat without the employment of his
hands or feet. An axe, guided by the malignant deity Lempo, wounds
lim in the foot while he is engaged in his work, and whole fields are
covered with the blood which issues from the wound. In order to be
healed, he enters the hut of an old man, to whom he describes, in a myth
which we pass over with regret, the origin of iron, and its perversion from
harmless to mischievous purposes. The blood is stopped by the force of

* This incident is not to be reconciled with the miraculous birth of the sage; but
the authenticity of the first Rune is doubtful.—J. O.
