50 THE KALEWALA.

his own prayer, and the cure is completed by a salve which is made
under the old man’s auspices, and the eluborate preparation of which is
most minutely described.

Wäinämöinen now resumes his homeward journey, and has no sooner
reached the borders of Kalewala than, by the magical power of his song,
he causes a pine-tree to spring out of the earth, and makes a moon and
the Great Bear rest upon its branches, which are of gold and reach to the
sky. When he arrives at his home, he pays a visit to the smith Ilma-
rinen, and tells him of the promise he has made in his name. The terrified
smith declares that he will not go to the fearful land in the north; but
his curiosity is aroused when Wäiniimöinen tells him of the golden pine-
tree; and he not only hastens with him to inspect it, but climbs to
its summit, in order to fetch down the moon and stars. Through one of
Wäinämöinen's magic songs, a wind now arises, which wafts Ilmarinen to
the northern country, where he finds Louhi awaiting his arrival. She
orders her daughter to deck herself in the most costly raiment, in honour
of the expected bridegroom, whom she entertains liberally, and then ex-
plains that the Sampo is to be made of the feather of a swan, a small
barley-corn, the wool of a sheep, and the milk of a cow. Ilmarinen
declares his willingness to perform the required task, stating that by his
hands the vault of heaven was fashioned. From the fire which he lights
in his forge proceed a bow, a boat, a cow, and a plough, all of fair ap-
pearance but of mischievous properties, as if to typify the abuses of the
implements most necessary to civilised life, and they are all cast back
into the fire by Ilmarinen. After three days’ hard work on the part of
the smith and some assistants whom he engages, the Sampo is made, and
turns out to be a miraculous mill, which from its three sides grinds forth
corn, salt, and money. Louhiis delighted to possess this wondrous machine,
and places it in a copper mountain for security; but her daughter refuses
to wed the smith, on the plea that she is unwilling to leave her home, and
Ilmarinen is sent back unrewarded to Wäinämöinen.

The thread of the narrative is now interrupted by the appearance of a
new hero, the wild youth Ahti, also called Lemminkainen and Kaukomieli,
who falls in love with Kyllikki, a beautiful maiden resident at Saari; and
is not to be deterred from paying his court to her by the fact that she
has already refused the sons of the sun, the moon, and a star; nor by the
warnings of his mother, who represents that the maiden is of too high
origin to justify any hope of success, and will only treat him with scorn.
He proceeds to Saari, where he is at first the laughing-stock of all the
girls; but he engages himself as a herdsman, and by his proficiency in
dancing soon wins the heart of every maiden save Kyllikki, in visiting
whom he wears out a lmmdred boats and as many oars. All other means
proving hopeless, he forcibly carries the proud beauty off in his sledge
while she is dancing with some young companions. After a slight alter-
cation, however, she consents to become his wife; and he takes her home
to his mother, who is overjoyed to receive them.
