52 THE KALEWALA.

cover which Wäinämoinen slaughters various animals, hoping to find
them in their brain. His research proving fruitless, he resolves to visit
the awful realm of Tuoni, whose daughter, on hearing his story, takes
him in a boat across her father’s river. The arrival of a living person in
the regions of the dead is a marvellous event, and Wäinimöinen is hospi-
tably entertained, and laid to rest in Tuoni’s own bed. To prevent his
return, three members of Tuoni’s family make a large net, which is laid
across the river ; but the art of Wäinämöinen is superior to such an ob-
stacle, and he slips through the meshes in the form of a worm.

The words, however, are still unknown, and Wäiniimöinen is advised
by an old shepherd to learn them from the mouth of a sage named Wi-
punen, to reach whom he must travel on the points of a needle and sword,
and the edge of a battle-axe. Ilmarinen makes an iron suit to qualify
him for this adventure; and though he finds Wipunen dead, with trees
growing out of his remains, he removes these impediments, and wandering
about the huge mouth of the corpse, slips down his throat. However,
by making his iron raiment into an anvil, and doing smith’s work upon it,
he so grievously torments Wipunen, that, notwithstanding his defunct
condition, he insists, with a torrent of imprecations, on his immediate
departure. But Wäinämöinen will not go till the object of his journey
is attained; and Wipunen at last sings a wondrous song about the origin
of things, in which the desired words are contained. Furnished with
these, Wäinämöinen leaves his singular place of sojourn, returns home,
finishes his boat, and sets off for Pohjola to try his fortune with the
celebrated maiden. As lie passes along, he is seen by Ilmarinen’s sister
Annikki, who asks him whither he is going. He first endeavours to put
her off with a series of falsehoods,—a very common practice with Finnish
heroes,—but at last confesses the truth; upon which Annikki hastens to
her brother, and demanding the manufacture of sundry trinkets as the
price of her communication, tells him that Wäinämöinen is endeavouring
to steal a march upon him. Accordingly Ilmarinen, thoroughly washing
himself, and putting on his best clothes, sets off likewise for Pohjola in a
magnificent sledge, and soon overtakes Wiiniimiinen. The two old
friends agree that they will not quarrel, nor endeavour to carry off the
maiden by violence, but fairly leave her to the exercise of her own free
will in the choice between them. When they both reach the place of
their destination, they are kindly received, and Wäiniimöinen, who shows
how he has manufactured the required boat from the distaff, would be
gladly accepted by Louhi as a son-in-law, while the daughter prefers the
young-looking and handsome Tlmarinen.

The persevering smith now makes up his mind that he will not be
deprived of his just reward, and tells Louhi that until the maiden is
given to him he will not taste another drop of mead. The hostess of
Pohjola begins to impose new conditions. In the first place, Ilmarinen
must plough a field of snakes; and it is fortunate that he now has an
auxiliary int '' ~ tt 7 "m that the feat may easily be
