THE KALEWALA, 53

performed with a plough of gold and silver, which he accordingly manu-
factures, likewise making for himself raiment of iron. When he has
done his work, he is ordered by Louhi to bring Tuoni’s bears and wolf;
and is secretly advised by his beloved to forge the requisite chains upon
a stone placed at the junction of three streams. Performing this second
task, with the aid of Terkenetar, goddess of mists, who conceals his ap-
proach from the animals, he is now enjoined to catch a large fish in
Tuoni’s river without employing a net. By the council of the girl, he
makes an eagle of fire with iron claws, which with some difficulty catches
the fish, and only gives the head to Ilmarinen, reserving the body as a
prize for itself. Louhi is somewhat dissatisfied at receiving only a part
when she expected the whole; but she no longer withholds her consent
to the union of Ilmarinen and her daughter; and Wäiniimöinen goes
home gloomily convinced that he is too old to play the part of a suitor.

Great preparations are now made for the wedding: a bull of colossal
dimensions is slanghtered; beer is brewed in vast quantities, the origin of
brewing being the subject of a mythical episode, narrated by one of the
personages. All that is wanted is a singer ; and to supply this deficiency,
Louhi invites every possible person, far and near, with the single excep-
tion of Ahti, whose turbulent disposition she thinks might work some
mischief; and Wäinämöinen tukes a conspicuous purt in the festival,
through his well-known gift of song. Other songs are sung by less dis-
tinguished personages, setting forth the duties of the bride and bride-
groom in their new life; and the feeling is evidently predominant that
maidens act unwisely in quitting the home of their parents to encounter
the troubles incident to the married state. At last Ilmarinen leaves the
northern country with his beautiful wife, and safely reaches his home,
where his mother is anxiously awaiting his return. A magnificent banquet
is prepared to celebrate the happy issue of the hazardous wooing, and the
chief singer is again the unrivalled Wiiiinmöinen, who extols the hospi-
tality of the hostess and the worth of the bide and bridegroom. On his
way back to his own residence, the sledge of the poet is broken; but lhe
makes for himself a new one, using for the purpose a tool which he
fetches from the dark realm of Tuoni.

The daring Lemminkäinen or Ahti now appears once more. Having
heard of the wedding-feast at Pohjola, he has resolved, though uninvited,
to make one of the party, and sets off, in spite of his mother’s warning, for
the wondrous country in the north. Three obstacles which he finds on
his road he triumphantly overcomes: a fiery eagle is tempted by some
feathers of the heath-cock, which he has found on the road, to allow him
to pass unmolested; a fiery gulf is crossed by a bridge, which he makes
of the ice, produced from the rain sent by Ukko, in answer to his prayers ;
a ravenous wolf is appeased by some wool which he carries in his pocket ;
and Pohjola is reached in safety. He finds it guarded by a railing of
iron, round which serpents are twining; but he cuts a passage with his
knife, and reaches the gateway of the hostess's residence. This is guarded
