THE KALEWALA. 55

scanty supply of wood, and takes leave with many tears of his countless
mistresses, whose grief is fully equal to his own. A storm that arises:
on the third day shatters his frail vessel, and he swims to a promontory,.
where he is received by a hospitable dame, who not only gives him abun-

dant refreshment, but furnishes him with a new boat, in which he at last

reaches his own country. But a scene of devastation meets his eye.

His residence is destroyed, and his mother is not to be found till after a

long search, when he discovers her in a little hut situated in the midst

of a forest. She informs him that the desolation he has witnessed is the

work of the people of Pohjola, who invaded the country in his absence,

and anxiously asks him how he passed his time. He gives a glowing
description of the placeeand is particularly urgent in making his mother

believe that he has had no intercourse with the women.

Going to the spot where he has left his boat, Ahti finds that sensitive
vessel bitterly weeping at the inactive existence it is about to endure,
and resolves on another expedition against Pohjola, in spite of the re-
newed remonstrances of his mother. This time, however, he takes with
him an old companion in arms, named Tiera, or Kuura, notwithstanding
the objections of Tiera’s fumily, who stute that he is newly married. On
their way to Pohjola their progress is arrested by the spells of Louhi, at
whose command the genius of Frost converts the sea into a sheet of ice.
Ahti himself is nearly frost-bitten; but he terrifies the genius with his
menaces, and at last returns home with Tiera, on horses which, in the
plenitude of his grief, he has magically created.

The course of the narrative is now completely interrupted, and a new
hero, named Kullerwo, is introduced into the story. wo brothers, Kaler-
woinen and Untamoinen, harass each other by sundry petty annoyances,
till at last Untamoinen, raising an army, destroys all the people of Kaler-
woinen, with the sole exception of his wife, whom he takes home as a
captive, and who gives birth to a child in the house of the conqueror.
This child, who is called Kullerwo, is extremely precocious, and promises
tu become the avenger of his father. Attempts are made to exterminate
him by drowning, burning, and hanging, but all prove fruitless ; and when
he is employed in"various branches of labour his exertions are only mis-
chievous to his omployer, who, hopeless of turning him to any useful ac-
count, sells him to the smith Ilmarinen for a few old iron implements,
supposed to represent his full value. By his new master, Kullerwo is
employed as a herdsman ; and the song in which he prays the gods to pro-
tect the flocks intrusted to his care may almost be regarded as an inde-
pendent idyll. However, he soon becomes dissatisfied with the manner
in which he is treated, especially when he finds in the middle of a very
indifferent loaf a stone so hard that it breaks his knife, a relic of his father.
To avenge this wrong, Kullerwo abandons his cattle to the bears and
wolves, and making for himself a pipe out of a cow’s horn, leads the wild
animals to his master’s residence. Ilmarinen's wife, who thinks the cattle
have returned home, and goes out to milk them, is torn to pieces by a wolf
