56 THE KALEWALA.

and a bear. Such is the miserable end of the northern beauty, for whose

sake so many toils have been undertaken, and who may be considered

the Helen of Finnish legend. Kullerwo then wanders about the world

bewailing his forlorn condition, and resolves that his next exploit shall

ve an attack on his uncle Untamoinen; when he meets an old woman who

informs him that both his parents, together with his two sisters, are living

in a small hut situated on a remote promontory of land. The information

is correct, and he lives for some time with his father and mother; but

being found incompetent in any department of labour, he is at last sent

out in a sledge to pay certain ducs ina remote part. On his road he

makes the acyuaintance of a girl, whom he seduces, and who turns out to

be his own sister. She drowns herself on making*this horrible discovery ;

and he returns to his parents in an agony of despair, only dissuaded from

suicide by the solicitations of his mother. Te now resumes his project of
making war upon Untamoinen, and takes leave of his family amid the’
tears of his mother and the revilings of his father and the rest, which he

repays with interest. Before he has proceeded far, he learns from succes-

sive messengers that tle whole family isdead. At the sudden decease of
his mother he is greatly shocked, while on learning the fate of the others

he expresses unmitigated scorn. With a magic sword, which he finds on

his road, after addressing a prayer to Ukko, le exterminätes the people

of Untamoinen, and returns to his desolate home. At last, weary of his
existence, he kills himself with his sword on the very spot which has wit-

nessed the dishonour of his sister.

We are glad to reach the end of this disagreeable episode, and to return
to our old friend Ilmarinen, who is plunged into grief through the loss of
his wife. To console himself, he attempts to make a new spouse of gold
and silver. First he produces a sheep, then a foal, und ultimately a
beautiful girl, whom, however, he can but half animate, and conseqnently
bears as a gift to the wise Wäiniimöinen, who will have nothing to do
with 2» golden maiden, expressing his refusal in terms which seem in-
tended to point a moral against avarice. Ilmarinen now betakes himself to
Pohjola to woo the second daughter of the hostess. As the unhappy result
of his first marriage causes him to be unfavourably received, he forcibly
carries off the girl in his sledge; and, finding that, while he was asleep on
his way home, she has shown herself more gracious to another admirer,
changes her into a sea-mew. To Wiiuiiméinen, whom he meets shortly
afterwards, and who asks him news about Pohjola, he answers that the
land is in a prosperous condition through the beneficial operation of the
Sampo. The old sage proposes that they shall set off at once to
Pohjola to take possession of the invaluable machine; and accordingly
Ilmarinen manufactures a new sword, and they find a horse, which takes
them to the sea-shore. Here they find a boat which is mourning its
inactive existence, and is not only launched but provided with a male and
female crew, by virtue of the song of Wäinämöinen. However, in spite of
all the exertions of the mariners, it will not move onwards till Ilmarinen
