THE KALEWALA. . 57

himself puts his hand to the oar, when it proceeds merrily along, Wäinä-
möinen performing the duty of steersman. As they are passing a de-
solate promontory, they are hailed by Ahti, who is almost starving, and
whose request to join the expedition is immediately granted. Praying
to the gods for assistance, they pass in safety over x dangerous water-
fall, but soon find their course impeded by an unknown obstacle,
which proves on examination by the shurp eyes of Ahti to be a pike, in
whose shoulder the boat is stuck fast. Ahti, who endeavours to cut a
passage, tumbles into the water, whence he is rescued by Ilmarinen, who,
in making a similar experiment, breaks his sword against the fish.
Wäinämöinen, more successful, thrusts his sword into the throat of the
pike, and lifts it out of the water; when it falls to pieces, the tail sink-
ing to the bottom and the head remaining in the boat. This is cooked
by the girls in the boat; and Wäinämöinen makes of the jaw a harp,
which they take with them to Pohjola. No one can play this instrument
with efficacy but the sage himself, who charms gods, men, beasts, birds,
and fishes with the beauty of his song; and weeping at his own music, sheds
innumerable tears, which, collected by a blue duck, are at once converted
into pearls. On their arrival at Pohjola, they enter the well-known hall,
and propose to the hostess « division of the Sampo. She rejects the pro-
posal, affirming that the machine is indivisible, whereupon Wiinämöinen
unreservedly declares his intention to take it entire. Louhi summons her
armed men to destroy the intruders; but they are all lulled to sleep by the
song of Wiiinämöinen, and their slumbers are prolonged by the “ arrows
of sleep,” which the sage carries in his pocket. The party next approach
the copper mountain in which the precious Sampo is kept, and the door is
loosened by the song of WiiiniimGinen ; while, to prevent unseemly creaking,
the hinges are greased by Ilmarinen, who effects an acces» to the treasure.
Aliti is appointed to take the Sampo; and it is at last removed with the
assistance of a strong bull, who ploughs away the roots that fastened it to
the ground, when it is conveyed in safety to the boat. On their way
home with their prize, Ahti presses Wiiinämöinen to sing. and being met
with a constant refusal, begins to sing himself, whereby he so greatly
terrifies a stork, that the bird flies to Pohjola, and with its violent shrieks
awakens Louhi and all her sleeping heroes. The old lady, highly en-
raged at the loss of the Sampo, implores the aid of the goddess of mists,
who embarrasses the travellers with a thick fog, through which, however,
Wäinämöinen cuts a way with his sword. The boat is now nearly cap-
sized by Iku-Turso, a water-deity, at the instance of Louhi; but his head
is seen above the waves by Wäinämöinen, who immediately seizes him,
and only releases him on the solemn promise that he will never again make
his appearance. A violent storm is the next peril; but this is stayed by
the prayers of the heroes, who, however, are much afflicted by the loss of
Wäinämöinen's harp, which falls overboard, and becomes the prey of the
chief water-deity.

Not content with this indirect mode of warfare, Louhi now equips a
