58 THE KALEWALA.

vessel filled with warriors, which gives chace to Wiiniiméinen and his
companions. The old sage stops the progress of the enemy by flinging
into the sea a splinter of flint and a scrap of tinder, which are at once
converted into a large reef, against which the Pohjola vessel strikes.
Louhi herself now rushes into the midst of the engagement, assuming the
form of a gigantic eagle, and bearing all her warriors, whom she rescues
from the wreck, upon her wings and tail. On seeing the approach of this
terrible bird, Wäiniimöinen again proposes a division of the Sampo, which
18 again refused ; and a sharp conflict now ensues, in the course of which
all the warriors are shaken from the wings and tail of the eagle, who,
with the single claw that is left her, snatches up the Sampo. It falls to
pieces; and the larger fragments sink to the bottom of the sea, where they
form the treasure of the water-god, while the smaller float ashore, to the
delight of Wäinämöinen, who predicts that they will bring a blessing to
Finland. To the enraged Louhi, who threatens to shut up the sun and
moon in a rock, and to spoil Wiiinämöinen's harvest by wild-beasts and

inclement weather, he answers in a tone of pious confidence :
. « If] trust in my Creator,

If I build upon the highest,

From the foe He will preserve me,

From the evil one my corn-ficld,

That the seed he may not injure,

That the growing ears he spoil not,

Oh, thou hostess of Pohjola,

Hide the wicked in thy mountain ;

But the sun, the blessed moonlight,

Ne’er by thee shall be imprisoned.”

Louhi feels that her power hax gone, and she returns home disconso-
late, with nothing but the cover of the Sampo. Wäinämöinen, on the
other hand, collects the particles which have floated ashore, and places
them on a woody island, that they may produce rye and barley, the former
for bread, the latter for beer.

Having brought this adventure to a happy issue, Wäinämöinen now
feels the want of his harp; and having persuaded Ilmarinen to make for
him a long rake, sets out in a boat and rakes the whole sea, in the hope
of finding the instrument. His search proving fruitless, he makes for
himself a new harp of a birch-tree, which he strings with the hair of
lovely girl, and once more sings a song which entrances every living
creature.

In the mean while Louhi, hearing of the prosperity of Wäiiniimöinen,
is consumed with envy, anf resolves, if she can, to work more mischief.
The arrival at her house of Loviatar, the youngest and worst daughter of
the infernal god Tuoni, provides her with new weapons; for her horrible
guest gives birth to nine sons, who are so many personified diseases. These
are despatched to molest the people of Kalewala; but the sick persons are
healed by the medicines and prayers of the sage, who especially addresses
himself to another daughter of Tuoni, called the “daughter of pain,”
imploring ber to put all the maladies into a vessel, bear them to the top
