THE KALEWALA. 59

of a mountain, and after boiling them in a small kettle, to thrust them
through a chink in the mountain side. The implacable Louhi next sends
the bear to devastate the flocks of Kalewala; but Witiniimiinen, favoured
by the sylvan deity Tapio, captures the animal while it is sleeping in a
wood, and taking it home, skins and eats it with great solemnity. It is
worthy of observation that the bear, while treated as an enemy, is ac-
costed with all the terms of endearment that might be addressed to a
favourite child, were it uot for the expressions of veneration that are
mingled with the blandishments, as this marks the very equivocal position
which is held by the animal in the Finnish mythology.

Indulging in the exercise of his musical talent, Wäiniimöinen, on one
occasion, plays so beautifully on his harp, that the sun and moon come
down and settle on two lofty trees; thus enabling Louhi to fulfil her
most singular threat, for she carries off both the luminaries to Pohjola,
and encloses them in a rock. Not only is Kalewala thus plunged into
utter darkness, but the supreme god, Ulko, is himself embarrassed by the
unwonted gloom. To remedy the deficiency, he kindles a fire, a spark of
which he puts into a purse embroidered with gold, which he shuts up
in a silver box. This is given to a maiden, who is enjoined to shake it
until a sufficient flame is produced for the creution of a new sun and
moon. The clumsy gurl heedlessly allows the spark to escape, and it de-
scends to earth with » tremendous crash, attracting the attention of Wäi-
nämöinen, who sets off with Ilmarinen to ascertain whence the new light
issues. Coming to the bank of a river, they proceed in a boat which
Ilmarinen furnishes on the spot, and are met by Ilmatar, the “ daughter of
air,” who informs them that the fallen spark, after domg a great deal of
mischief, at last fell into the water, where it was swallowed by a fish of
the salmon kind. The salmon was tortured by pain till it was swallowed
in its turn by a salmon-trout, to whom all the pain was transferred; a
pike, who swallowed the salmon-trout, is the last on the list of suiferers.

The capture of the pike is now resolved upon, and Wäinämöinen,
after vainly using a net woven of bast, learns from the conversation of the
fishes with each other that nothing but flax will answer the purpose. This
is not easily to be obtained. The roots of two trees are pulled up, and the
required seed, found in the vicinity of a terrible reptile, called “Tuoni’s
worm,” is sown among the ashes of a boat that has been destroyed by
fire. It thrives well; and the net is at last made by Witiniimiinen’s
people. After many fruitless attempts the fish is taken, with the assist-
ance of a little man, who rises out of the waves, in answer to a prayer ad-
dressed to the marine deities. When the prey is carried on shore, Wäinä-
möinen hesitates about touching it with an unarmed hand; but the “son
of the sun,” who overhears his misgivings, states his readiness to do all
that is required, if he is furnished with a knife. No sooner has he spoken
the words than a knife falls from heaven, which the “son of the sun”
dextrously uses, extricating the salmon-trout from the body of the pike,
and the salmon from the body of the salmon-trout. In a ball of thread,
