THE KALEWALA. 61

fondling it upon her knees. Wandering about, she inquires of sun, moon,
and stars where she can find her lost son, and is told that he is the
Creator of them all. ‘Through information of the sun, she discovers her
darling immersed to the shoulders in a deep marsh, from which she ex-
tricates him. He grows up in great beauty ; and his mother asks Wiro-
kennas, the person who killed the bull for Ilmarinen's wedding feast, to
sprinkle him with water as a blessing. Wirokannas refuses to perform
the office without higher authority; and Wäinämöinen, to whom the
mother is referred, decides that the child ought to be destroyed. The
sage is reproved for his folly by the boy, and Wirokannas performs the
office of baptism, pronouncing the child King of Carelia. Wäinämöinen,
deeply grieved, sails off in a copper boat, which takes him to a region
situated between heaven and earth. His harp he Jeaves behind him for
the delight of his people.

Thus ends the epic of fifty books, written in a metre, which the
Hiawatha of Professor Longfellow has made familiar to the Anglo-
Saxon public, and which closely resembles that of the dialogue in the
Spanish plays, save that the ear is never relieved by a pause on a final
long syllable. The whole poem flows on in an uninterrupted course of
trochees, which, ulmost painfully monotonous, according to our feelings,
is congenial to the Finnish race. So fond is the Finn of a trochee,
that if he adopts n monosyllable from another language, he affixes a short
termination to bring it to the desired form. “ Hat,” for instance, he
calls “hattu;” “sack” he calls “ sakki.”

The story given above will, I think, be found complete, with the
exception of those independent myths which are sometimes told by the
personages in the course of the tale, and which, as their omission does not
leave any gap in the narrative, I have for brevity’s sake merely indicated
or entirely passed over. But the peculiarity of which I have given no
idea, is the fondness for minute description which characterises the
Finnish poet, who in this respect closely approaches Homer, while he
stands completely aloof from the bard of the Niebelungen Lied, who, ab-
sorbed in the contemplation of his heroes and their prowess, has scarcely
a word to bestow upon accessories. As an instance of this peculiarity, I
give the following description of the manner in which Ilmarinen was
equipped by his sister Annikki when he went a-wooing to Pohjola :

“Then she fetched his pliant stockings,
Which his mother once had knitted,
That his shins might be well covered,
That his calves might be enveloped ;
Then his shoes, that neatly fitted, —
Dainty boots, which he had purchased,—
Did she put upon the stockings,
Which his mother once had kintted
Then she gave him his blue garment,
Coloured underneath like leather
On his shirt of finest linen.
