THE KALEWALA. . 63

as the poem at present stands, Kalewala may be taken as an eguivalent
for Finland, while Lapland is represented by Pohjola.

It is worthy of observation, that the martial virtues, which alone com-
mand the admiration of most primitive poets, are but lightly esteemed in .
the Kalewala. The only warrior in heart and soul is Ahti or Lemmi-
käinen, who always brings trouhle on himself and every body else, and is
manifestly an inferior being tö Wiiinämöinen the poet, and Ilmarinen the
representative of the useful arts. Most of the battles are fought, not
with sword, but with song; and wild as the magical contests may be,
they still imply a belief in the superiority of intellectual endowments to
the possession of brute force. With all its extravagance, the Kalewala
is a wild song of civilisation ; and Professor Longfellow imitated not only
its metre but its tendency when he wrote Hiawatha.

The story of the mysterious machine called the “ Sampo” is supposed by
Castrén to be of more recent date than that of the wooing. The nature
of the Sampo itself is a matter for boundless conjecture. Some regard it
as a temple which perpetuates a deity ; others look upon it as an ordinary
mill. Whatever itis, it brings a blessing on the land in which it is placed,
and vhis is a blessing of peace ; the materials of which it is composed,—a
swan’s feather, a barleycorn, a flock of wool, and a portion of milk,—clearly
pointing to the different departments of agricultural employment. Cas-
trén calls attention to the fact, that in the pursuit of the Sumpo the three
heroes of Kalewala appear no longer as rivals, but as patriots united
for the common good of their country. Might I venture to compare this
expedition with the voyage of the Argonauts :-Wäinämöinen bears a
strong resemblance to Orpheus; the nature of the fleece is not wholly
dissimilar to that of the Sampo; Colchis, the land of marvels, has attri-
butes in common with Pohjola.

The sentiment which most prevails throughout the poem is that of
maternal affection, which is expressed even hy the wicked Louhi, and
most of all by the mother of the wild Ahti, who is constantly endeavour-
ing to check her son in his reckle-s undertakings. However, the mar-
riage state is clearly regarded as onc of unhappiness to the wife, and the
maid who leaves the home of her parents to dwell with a husband is evi-
dently regarded as an object of commiseration.

The concluding Rune, in which the Virgin Mary is introduced, is ob-
viously of recent invention ; but it is nevertheless exceedingly curious, as
marking the transition of a people from one religion to another. The
gods of Greece were stigmatised as devils by the carly fathers of the
Church ; but the old Finnish mythology is more gently treated. Wiiinii-
möinen is not allowed to ascend to the Christian heaven, when the reign
of the Redeemer is proclaimed; but he is still raised above carth, and his
harp still remains as a relic of the blessings he conferred upon his race.
