45 ]

Che Kalewala.

By Joun Oxenrorp.

 

To a certain class of modern philologists, no poem in the world is more
familiar than the Kalewala, the long epic, which is to the mythology and
traditional lore of the Finns what the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer are to
the heroic story of ancient Greece. It is the source from which nearly all
the information connected with the religious creed, the moral notions, the
customs, and the domestic details of a most remarkable race is to be ob-
tained. If we would know how the Greeks of the heroic age prayed,
fonght, eat, drank, sported, and clothed themselves, we turn to the pages
of Homer, If we would obtain similar knowledge ou the subject of the
Finns, we consult the Kalewala.

Though the traditions of the Finnish heroes are possibly as old as
those of Achilles and Ajax, the arrangement of them into a continuous
poem is a work of very recent date. No Wolfian controversy will arise
respecting the construction of the Kalewala, for it is not more than twenty-
five years since the Peisistratid who first put together the isolated songs,
or Runes, published the result of his labours. Fragments of Finnish
poetry, collected from the oral traditions of the people, had already made
their appearance, though even the first important collection of these,
which was made by Dr. Zacharias Topelius, dates no further back than
1822. An attempt made by Professor Becker, some ten years hefore,
to arrange a few of the songs in consecutive order is just worth men-
tioning, because it probably suggested to Dr. Linnrot the notion of
making the same experiment on a larger scale. But it is with Dr.
Lönnrot that the existence of the epic as an epic, with the title “ Kale-
wala,” begins. He published it in thirty-two Runes,—that is to say,
books or cantos, for the word, which previously denoted an independent
poem, now sinks into little more tlian a sign of division, though here
and there, it must be confessed an abrupt transition occurs, to which a
parallel would not be found in the Iliad or the Odyssey. In 1849 a
second edition ef the Kalewala was published, likewise under the super-
intendence of Dr. Lönnrot, containing fifty cantos and nearly 23,000
liues. It is this edition that philologists have in view when they quote
from the Kalewala, unless they expressly refer to the earlier publication.

Although, as I have said, the Kalewala is familiar to a certain class of
philologists, that class is scarcely a drop in that ocean of humanity, the
British public. Hence, humbly relying on the assistance of the great
Finnish scholars Castrén and Schiefner, I venture to narrate a curious
cycle of legends that will be perfectly new to thousands, though the units
may accuse me of telling an oft-told tale. In a word, I give the story of
the Kalewala.
