THE KALEWALA. 47

birds. This consideration for the feathered tribe pleases the eagle, who
has watched the operations of Wiiinämöinen, and he kindles a flame
which reduces all the trees and the brushwood to ashes. Wiiniiméinen
now sows the seven seeds, which he has carefully enclosed in skins, at
the same time piously addressing the goddess of the earth and the
celestial deity Ukko :

“ Anciont goddess, who art dwelling
In the depth, the great earth-mother ;
Let the turf put forth its vigour,
Let the soil exert its forces.
For the pow'r in earth that dwelleth
Well I know will never fail me,
If the daughters of creation
With their kind assistance bless me.
Earth, awaken from thy slumber,
Thou domain of the Creator;
Tet the many stalks thou bearest
With a thousand ears grow fruitful,
Through my labour, through my sowing.
For my toil is very heavy.
Ukko, thou great God above me,
Thou, O Father, in the heavens,
Who amid the clouds art dwelling,
And canst guide them at Thy pleasure,
Oh, direct them, in Thy wisdom,
From the north, and from the north-east ;
From the west, too, send them hither,
And before them come the south wind.
Send the rain from Thy high heaven ;
Let the heavy clouds drop heavy,
That the ears may riso in vigour,
That the grain may cheerly rustle.”

Wiiiniiméinen’s prayer is granted, the seed grows,"and spring is upon
the earth, heralded by the cuckoo, who, asking why the birch-tree is left,
is thus answered by Wäinämöinen :

“Cuckoo, I have left this birch-tree
As a place for pleasant warbling ;
Let thy voice be heard, O cuckoo,
Freely sing from throat melodivus,
Sweetly sing with voice of silver,
Sing at morning, sing at evening,
Sing amid the heat of noontide,—

» Asa blessing to my labour,
That the wood may better flourish,
That the corn may be abundant.”

Wäiniimöinen now passes an agreeable life on the plains of Kale-
wala, singing day and night such sublime songs about the origin of all
things, that his fame reaches the ears of Joukahainen, a Lapland youth,
who, moved by envy, resolves to defeat him in a vocal contest. In spite
of the entreaties of his father and mother, Joukahainen sets off for Kale-
wala in a magnificent sledge, and in three days meets Wäinämöinen, like-
wise in a sledge, on the road. The sledges come into collision, and the
dispute which ensues resolves itself into a trial of wisdom. Joukahainen
