THE KALEWALA. 51

On their journey the lovers have each made a vow— Ahti that he will
never go to war, Kyllikki that she will never participate in a village
dance. Ahti piously keeps his vow; but one day, while he is absent
fishing, Kyllikki indulges in the prohibited pastime. Informed of the
trespass by his sister Ainikki, Ahti resolves to leave Kyllikki, and seek
the famous beauty of the North as his bride. Before he departs he
throws against the wall the brush with which he has smoothed his hair,
and tells his afflicted mother that it will shed drops of blood if any harm
befalls him. Fully armed, and firmly confiding in the protection of the
god Ukko, he reaches the land of his destination, and surprises an assem-
bly of magicians by stepping into the midst of them unnoticed by their
watch-dog. By the power of his song he annihilates them all, except a
blind old man, whom he spares on account of his worthlessness and insig-
nificance. He now demands of the hostess of Pohjola, who was among the
magicians, the hand of her daughter; but she disdainfully refuses to
comply with his request, unless he will catch the elk of the malignant
deity, Hiisi, who, learning his danger, makes a living elk of dry wood.
The chase of this animal is attended with the greatest difficulty ; but Ilma-
rinen, invoking the aid of the woodland deities, Tapio and his family,
overcomes every obstacle, and brings the spoil in safety to the “hostess.”
Louhi, however, refuses to give up her daughter till Ahti has also bridled
Hiisi’s horse. This task he likewise performs, with the assistance of the
celestial god Ukko, who arrests the flight of the wild steed by a violent
hail-storm ; but Louhi now orders him to shoot one of the swans on the
black river of Tuoni, the ruler of the infernal regions. This third task
proves fatal. The blind old man, whose life he spared, sees him approach
the river, and avenges his insulting mercy by shooting at him a water-
snake, which penetrates his shoulder. Ahti falls into the stream of death,
and is hewn to pieces by the son of Tuoni.

The blood that appears on the brush informs Kyllikki and Ahti's
mother of the disastrous event. The mother betukes herself to the hostess
of Pohjola, who at first professes utter ignorance of Ahti's fate; but
ultimately, terrified by the menaces of the mother, confesses that she has
sent him after one of Tuoni’s swans. Pursuing her investigations, the
mother, after inquiring in vain of the trees, the winds, and the moon, at
last learns from the sun where the body of the youth is to be found.
She accordingly commands the smith Ilmarinen to make for her an enor-
mous rake, and with this implement fishes up the pieces of the corpse
from the depths of the infernal river. These she joins together, and with
the assistance of Suonetar, the goddess of veins, and of & salve which is
brought by a bee from the altar of the Supreme Deity, she restores her son
to life and vigour, and takes him safely home.

This episode ended, we return to Wäinämöinen, who is making a boat
for another expedition, with the assistance of Pellerwöinen, who fells an
oak to supply him with the necessary material. The boat, however, can-
not be completed without the knowledge of three magic words; to dis-
