60 THE KALEWALA.

which is found inside the salmon, the spark is discovered, and almost im-
mediately escapes, singeing the beard of Wiiiniimdinen, more seriously
burning Ilmarinen, and laying waste the country wherever it goes. How-
ever, it is again found near the root of a tree by Wiiinäimöinen, who this
time takes it safely home in a copper vessel, so that Kulewala is no longer
without fire.

However, the people are still in great distress through the loss of the
sun and moon ; and Ilmarinen, yielding to their supplications, at last makes
a new moon of gold, and a new sun of silver. [It may be remarked, that
the Finns, in this respect contrary tv other nations, seem invariably to
associate silver with the sun, and gold with the moon.] The manu-
factured Iuminaries, placed each on the summit of a tall tree, do not give
the desired light; and Wäinämöinen fancies that no good can be done till
they have ascertained the place in which the real sun and moon are con-
cealed. By a process of divination, accompanied by prayer to the Creator,
he learns that they are concealed in the copper mountain of Pohjola, and
pays another visit to that country, changing himself into a fish when
he comes to a river that stops his progress, and finds that there is not
a boat at hand to carry him over. A party of warriors, who, fully
armed, are prepared to receive him in the celebrated hall, he hews to
pieces with his sword; and proceeding a little further, comes to a green
island, where he finds a block of stone standing on a birch-tree, and sup-
portidg a rock, which is furnished with nine strongly-barred doors. Split-
ting the stone asunder, he perceives a company of snakes drinking beer,
and at once destroys them ; but finding himself utterly unable to open the
doors in the rock, returns home empty-handed, and in a very ill humour,
to hear the reproaches of Ahti, because he did not take him as a comrade.
However, he applies to Ilmarinen to make for him a dozen keys, and some
other implements ; and the smith, while he is engaged on his work, is sur-
prised by the appearance of a hawk at his window, who, accosting him in
flattering terms, asks the nature of his occupation. He answers that he is
forging an iron ring to put about the neck of the hostess of Pohjola; where-
upon the bird, who is no other than Louhi in disguise, flies back to the
north, and having released the sun and moon, returns to Ilmarinen in the
form of a dove, to report what has been done. The smith, going out of
doors, perceives the sun and moon shining in the sky, and hastens to
communicate the good news to Wiiiniimöinen, who hears it with infinite
delight. .

In the last, the fiftieth, Rune we are suddenly introduced to a beauti-
ful maiden, numed Mariatta, who is obviously intended for the Virgin
Mary. In spite of the injunctions of her father and mother, she refuses
either to milk the cows or to ride in a sledge, and prefers to lead her
lambs to pasture. The cranberries invite her to pluck them, and one
that she is forced to knock off with a stick ascends to her mouth, and
goes dowri her throat. In consequence of this seeming accident, she gives
birth to a male child, which, to her great grief, vanishes while she is
